You've now finished yet another section
on getting Node.js and Docker
to be the sweet, little thing that they are together.
Now, we're going to do the assignment for this section.
This section was a really important one, like all the other
ones, but it's really focused on quality production,
which is what matters the most, once you get your nice,
little development environment set up locally.
The assignment here is going to be rather large
because we're taking into account all the stuff from this
section, and we've got a bonus assignment along
with this one.
We're going to start in the ultimate-node-dockerfile
directory of the course repo.
You'll recognize this sample app because
it's the result app from the dog versus cat voting
app that you used in the Docker Compose
awesome assignment earlier where you were creating the
awesome Docker Compose file, right.
So, now you're going to do it in reverse, and you're going
to be creating the Dockerfile for that
rather than focusing on the Docker Compose file.
I've made the Docker Compose file a little friendly for you
just to get you started because that's not really the focus
of this assignment. Of course, you can always play around
with it, but it's essentially going to be the same Compose
file that you had before.
I've simplified it a little bit to focus you on the
Dockerfile itself. Because that's really what I want to
drive home with you on practicing this, a
Dockerfile and making it the full experience
for production, development, and test, all in one, that
you've learned throughout this section.
When I say make a production-grade Dockerfile,
I don't mean just make the Dockerfile for production.
I mean that that Dockerfile has taken everything into
account, which means dev, test, and production.
You're going to be doing a lot of things here including
adding multiple stages, focusing on
making sure you don't repeat yourself with multiple
commands and different stages that do the same thing.
Making sure that dev dependencies are only in development.
Making sure the production image is lean.
Adding the testing stuff.
There's so much to it that I've given you another readme
markdown in that directory that we're going to step through
now and just talk about a little bit.
We're in the ultimate-node-dockerfile directory.
I want to focus on the readme.
You're familiar with the app from the previous assignments,
and you'll even be a little familiar with the top of this
readme, which is the same idea.
You're the Node.js developer, in a project with multiple,
different apps, all related, and someone's given
you the Docker Compose file filled out, and they've also
given you the basic Dockerfile.
You're going to take that Dockerfile and turn it in to
all the fanciness, and all of the optimizations, that
you've learned throughout this section and throughout this
course. I've given you a list of the things
that this Dockerfile should include and do.
They're a little bit in order of this section, so
if you need to go back to videos, if you work from the top
down, they'll generally be in order of how this section
flowed. If you scroll down, the next thing
you'll notice is a bonus section. That's new.
I have not given a bonus section before necessarily
in an assignment. You could always have done extra stuff,
but there's so much opportunity here for practicing.
I'm really all about the practice.
Once you get done with this assignment, if you have the
time, consider doing the bonus material.
The next video will be the assignment
answer, just like normal, as I walk through the assignment.
But, there's a second video after that and that
lecture video will be just for the bonus stuff.
So, if you don't have the time, or maybe you want to skip
it, you can skip the bonus lecture.
But, I'm all about practicing things over and over again
because we don't all just learn everything the first time
we do it. We often need to do it multiple times, at least,
in order to get better at remembering it.
A lot of the bonus stuff is taken from previous sections
in the course.
So, it's going to cause your memory to have to go back
a few videos, possibly even dozens of videos back, to the
earlier sections of the course, to talk about Dockerfile
best practices, to talk about multistage,
talk about BuildKit, and all the other things that you
learned earlier on in the course.
Because you can implement that stuff here to make
this experience, and this Dockerfile, better.
Finally, I've given you some outcomes here just for
the main section, not so much for the bonus section, but
for the main assignment, I've given you some
ways to verify that your assignment
worked, and it did what you expect.
Not all the things you do in the assignment are going to
always be immediately obvious.
Sometimes things won't go right.
Usually, if you can run your tests,
and you can run it and play with it in the actual browser,
usually simple apps like this, you'll know whether or not
you did it right.
Another few things you'll do there include validating
the image sizes, because you'll expect that your production
image is smaller than your development images,
or your test images, which have all those extra
dependencies in them.
I've thrown a few other things in there that you can run as
well. Include functional tests and ensuring that
you don't include things like the test files themselves in
your production images, which we didn't necessarily show
exactly how to do in this section.
But, I bet you can figure it out.
As always, I hope you'll try this
assignment for a little bit on your own.
It's ok if it takes you multiple tries and a significant
amount of time, meaning more than a few minutes.
It might even take you an hour or two, and that's totally
fine. The most important part is your learning how
these things can be created.
Because it's not just a boilerplate standard thing every
time. Sometimes you've got to get creative.
Got to try different methods to get things to work properly
together. And most importantly, I hope you have fun and
I'll see you in the assignment answer.